## References
- [How A Wall of Lava Lamps Is Protecting The Internet](https://grantpiperwriting.medium.com/how-a-wall-of-lava-lamps-is-protecting-the-internet-c7b773b251ee)
- [Cloudflare uses lava lamps to prevent hacking](https://www.reddit.com/r/nextfuckinglevel/comments/1bhrbla/cloudflare_uses_lava_lamps_to_prevent_hacking/)

====
====

## [Cloudflare uses lava lamps to prevent hacking](https://www.reddit.com/r/nextfuckinglevel/comments/1bhrbla/cloudflare_uses_lava_lamps_to_prevent_hacking/)


> What most people don't know is that computers can't give you some really random numbers.
>
> After all they are big calculators with memory, you can tell them to take some data from one location and put it to the other or take data from two different locations, do some math on it and put it to the third location.
> 
> You can't make anything random by it because you can't tell to computer 'do something random', you have to give him specific instructions.
>
> That's why to have really random things you have to use some outside source. For example in microcontroller worlds (mini computer that runs your smart fridge for example or smart weather sensor) you can read from pin that isn't connected anywhere, so it works as an anthena and gives you fairly random output. PC applications might for example use the movement of user's mouse

> > That was the case long ago. Now random numbers are too important. All modern operating systems have cryptographically secure random number generators. Entropy is collected from environmental noise, from device drivers and other sources. In linux and linux-like operating systems, you can research /dev/random. There’s a good wikipedia page on it.

> > > I mean it's kinda what I said

====
====

## What is the problem if computer cannot generate truly randomness?

You're right, computers can't generate truly random numbers. This is because computers are deterministic machines, meaning they follow exact instructions every time.  Imagine a recipe -  you follow the steps and get the same cake every time. There's no room for surprises!

While truly random numbers seem ideal, it's not always a dealbreaker. In fact, for many uses, we actually rely on what are called pseudorandom numbers. These are numbers that seem random, even though they're generated by a complex algorithm.

Here's why true randomness might not be necessary:

* **Security concerns:** Truly random numbers could be unpredictable, which can be a security risk in things like encryption. Pseudorandom numbers are good enough and easier to control.
* **Repeatability:**  Sometimes, you want to be able to recreate the same random results. This allows scientists or developers to double-check their work.

However, there are situations where a lack of true randomness can cause problems:

* **Lottery rigging:** If a lottery's random number generator is predictable, someone could exploit it to win unfairly.
* **Simulation flaws:**  In simulations that rely on randomness, non-truly random numbers could create unrealistic patterns.

Luckily, there are ways to get closer to true randomness for sensitive applications. Some techniques involve using external sources of randomness, like atmospheric noise or radioactive decay.

So, while computers can't generate true randomness, pseudorandom numbers work well in most cases. But for situations requiring extreme unpredictability, scientists are getting creative to harness randomness from the real world.